The Karoo is possibly the reason why the mighty BMW R1200 GS was invented. They're ubiquitous there, and I'm lucky enough to know why.
Just pray the frackers are kept away from this beautiful region.
I love the Karoo, and the 'Back Garden' route through the Klein Karoo is awesome. However, I cannot believe that the article doesn't mention Ronnie's Sex Shop on Route 62, which is a pub that's well worth a detour.
Riverine rabbit's a bloody good sighting. Where exactly was that one?
Nice to see they included a photograph of a Climax.
Nice that you highlight the spectacular beauty that is the Karoo - I was born in the town of Calvinia, where they have the annual Hantam Vleisfees. A few things need pointing out, though: you make no distinction between the Groot (great) Karoo and the Klein (Small) Karoo, and there is quite a big difference. You also keep referring to as a desert, which it is not. It is considered semi-desert, and some areas, especially in the Klein Karoo, actually get quite a bit of rain. Also, you dismally fail to mention the threat of fracking. Yes... that scourge is threatening the Karoo. Fracking requires a lot of water, which there isn't in the Karoo. So these guys now say they'll transport the water (=masses of traffic) to the fracking sites and the remove the waste water and dump it somewhere else, which is a complete lie. If that contaminated water gets into the subterranean water resources of the Karoo, that whole area will die. So, please, make that an issue. The Ruperts, whom you write about quite a bit, are vociferous opponents to fracking, but not even that appears to be enough to stop it.
Hi @gilstra - we do refer to the fracking issue in the piece: "The threat of fracking and uranium mining in the region has evoked new ways of expression, and a degree of urgency to save it. There have been quite a few exhibitions on the subject, the prime one being Fear & Loss, which has been moving around the country, and which looks at the interplay of heritage, culture, politics and economics and the way all of this impacts on the land and the communities who live on it."
A year to the day since I drove through the Meiringspoort on my way from Karoo NP to the coast - a wonderful trip.
It is beautiful out there, like a Route 66 road trip but 50 years ago.And the wildlife, food, landscape are all wonderful.Wish I had a spare month to do it all well.
I think the locals could do with the jobs and tax for schools and hospitalsThis is a beautiful but poor area
Cycled across it, beautiful, but really bloody hot.
The stars, oh man the stars. Watched Mars rise, first thought it was a fire in the distance till I noticed it moving upwards into the sky.  I've slept under a lot of African skies, before and since, but that was something else.
Off to Afrika Burn again next month. Can't wait...
is this South africa of 20 years ago? the only black people to feature in the article are (in photos) dancers performing for the tourists and assistants at stores/braais. Are black people still unable to own businesses or benefit from the tourist sector?
No it's the SA of now. Your logic is badly twisted. Just because someone does not appear in a photo does not mean that they cannot own businesses or benefit from the tourist sector.
