If you put economists and pollsters together do you honestly expect to get any sensible forecasts?  Consumer spending has been the main driver of UK economic growth  And there is the explanation as to why the forecasts of all of these idiots are meaningless. This government has no policies for real growth, it just moves from the creation of one bubble to the creation of the next.
Value counts a lot more than volume. And also no mention again of 10% annual borrowing increases on loans and credit cards? So this is hardly the full picture: "Consumer spending has been the main driver of UK economic growth, helped by high employment, rock-bottom interest rates and low inflation"
the crash is already here folks!
david cameron *should* support west ham, because heir theme tune is "we're for ever blowing bubbles"! ;)
Yes we have cut back ourselves and I know of quite a few younger people that have actually started to save for Christmas because of the working tax credit reductions to their claims.I sometimes think that these so called intelligent people in charge of our country has little or no knowledge of the consequences of their cutbacks in working tax credits, especially when they penalise people for working by reducing their income, of course the domino effect is that the retail industry, cafe's restuarants, holiday firms, pleasure parks, and many others will suffer this foolish Government's decision, one which punishes those that give so much and receive so little in return.
We are world beaters when it comes to selling property to each other, where's your sense of pride?
When did you last buy something you didn't have to take back?Apart from drink and food that is?I myself have had to get a pair of glasses re-done (250 quids worth!), numerous cloths which are not the right size (Chinese workers understand Chinese, XXL XS mah same thing) Try buying shoes instead of trainers on NMWAnd today a starter for my kitchen light purchased from B&Q dead before I got home from work purchased an hour before I left for work! (Made in China obs)Two CO2 car journeys in a few days for something that use to last for years when it was made in West Germany.How sick how demented would I have to be to go shoppping at B&Q for the fun of it, on the off chance I want an LED light for my birdbath etc given the quality of a fluorescent light starter that functioned ONCE before it broke?Why would I go to TKMAXX with its lack of changing rooms to buy shirts that are not the size they say they are?And who is so stupid as to buy a phone from a phone shop? Some ungodly heap of technology fit only for landfill for the price of a bedsit every month, never ever never again will you see me set foot in your palace of despair NEVER!
We've been reading for a little while now that people are somewhat falling out of love with consumption of things and perhaps favour experiences over goods. I've a feeling that rather too much choice exists for many retail sectors. Just too much stuff.Personally, I only buy clothes and footwear at substantial discounts off season. Why pay double for summer stuff now when you could have bought it last Sepsmber for a fraction of the cost. Why waste money on the generally shitty chain food restaurants if you can picnic on a bright day or invite friends and cook at home.  Why buy records, film, TV shows or go to the cinema when you can stream etc. for a fraction of the price or even for free.
What we appear to need from this outlook is more exports / a clear, specialised industry policy, rather than hoping home based consumer spending will prop our business up.
When you have to spend "all" your money solely to keep a roof over your head, rent or mortgage, what the hell are you supposed to spend in the shops?
