Delicious. This is one word that comes to my mind when I think of my favorite fruit: peaches. I have many memories with the fruit, peaches. In this article I was practically drooling over how delicious these peach doughnuts sounded. I have many memories of my most favorite fruit, but one is when my neighbors brought over some peaches from their familys peach farm. These peaches were amazing! They were juicy, soft, and delicious. The peaches themselves even looked as they tasted. They were a vibrant coral-orange and were the perfect peach shape. Another wonderful memory I have of the delicious fruit is when my dad cooked my family a special dessert. My dad spent at least 2 hours cooking this delectable dessert. He made an exquisite caramel sauce that just melted in your mouth. And he grilled to peaches. The peaches flesh was so ripe. It was so juicy that my mouth nearly flooded with the freshly grilled peach. That was the best dessert that I had ever had and I will never forget the experience and how tasty it was. My last memory with peaches is when my family went peach picking. This was such a fun thing to do because we got to pick our own peaches, and just like apple picking, eat the peaches too! After we picked the peaches, we went home and made an amazing peach pie. I had never had peach pie before then so I was so excited to try it. This article was great because it reminded me of how many memories I have with my favorite fruits!
There are various Czech recipes for what are called fruit dumplings... where the fruit (peach, apricot, bing cherries, plums) are encased in a dough made of potato, flour, egg or a bread dough with yeast (prob. an egg), altho one could also use a biscuit dough (make a thin wrapping)-- dropped into boiling water and served with butter, cottage cheese, cinnamon, sugar to taste. YUM...
I think it sounds delish but 'recipes for health' tag?..it is a delicious alternative for deep fried cheesecake...but healthy not so much! Butter..brown sugar...ice cream? The only two ingredients that are healthy are the peaches and almonds! I'm a fan of anything that involves sugar and butter so count me in but mislabed as 'healthy'
Doughnut peaches? "Saturn peaches". This fruit is originally Spanish, and here their proper name is "paraguayos", and their appearance in the markets of Spain is a sign that summer has arrived. My favorite fruit.This week I also saw that some enterprising horticulturalist has bred what are called "platarinas", nectarines bred to be the same shape as paraguayos, but unlike paraguayos, which have a unique flavour, the platarinas taste exactly the same as a nectarine.
This all looks and sounds really delicious. I've never even heard of Saturn Peach Doughnuts until today. Why haven't I heard about this sooner?! Peaches and Doughnuts; two things that I love!!!!! Looking forward to making this for my mother and I. Just seeing this on a plate with almonds and raspberries makes my mouth water even more. Looks like I'm making a trip to the grocery store today!
Sounds delicious. and the almonds there to give it just that gratifying taste. The raspberry sauce gives it a sweet and sounding feeling to digest with. Although this is indeed a very refreshing desert, it's not ones of those easily eating items. It has to be just right and ate with the perfect thing. Won't be able to eat this while drinking coffee!
Looks delicious. I started to read the article about "high class" Mexican fare at the Lower east Side coffee house in today's paper, but quickly gave up and went to your article. You make me want to taste these 'donuts"!
So delicious!! And the almonds add a wonderful crunch. The raspberry sauce is a lovely accent--and so good that I have made and used it for other fruit desserts!
And how is this healthy? Sugar fried in butter sounds pretty bad. Why not just eat the peaches and almonds raw?
Saturn peaches, those amusing flat peaches that look like the rings of Saturn (or like bagels ... -- do not they look like peaches squashed along their vertical axis? The recipe is ingenious, but these donuts cannot be dunked into coffee.
I have had fun with these doughnut peaches in "A Couple of Doughnuts," a dessert from my book The Dessert Architect (2010) where I pair the fruit with a doughnut, serving them with a peach mousse flavored with violet and a bit of caramel sauce on the side. Way beyond diner fare.
